All right, so let's now go over
several methods for creating a copy of an array.
So specifically we're going to be looking at
five ways to create a copy of an array.
Right. First one is clone,
and that's inherited from the object class
it creates a new array reference
but the elements are not cloned, so it's a shallow copy,
the example code there and it's given in all
these examples that we've got a string array
called string array with three elements,
abc, def, ghi, which of course are strings.
So, string array, cloned array equals stringarray.clone
is how call this particular call.
And, again credits to your array reference,
but again elements are not cloned.
And they stand to keep in mind
that's mutable and a shallow copy.
Next, the arrays.copyOf method.
Which is a static method on java.lang.arrays.
This creates a new array reference, but again
the elements are not cloned, so it's a shallow copy.
We got some examples in there
sting.array, copiedArray = Arrays.copyOf
passing the stringarray and stringarray.length
then copy everything and you can also change the
stringarray.length to this specific number of elements.
I got an example there passed in 2 and 7.
Some notes about this one, again mutable.
It's a shallow copy.
It can create an array which is truncated from the original.
It can also create an array larger than the original,
and additional elements will get default values.
Moving on. The next point is Arrays.copyOfRange.
Another static method from java.lang.arrays.
And it creates a new array reference from the
selected range but the elements are not cloned again.
So it's a shallow copy.
Example execution will be StringArray
copied.ArrayRange = Arrays.copyOfRange
passing the stringArray and the range.
In this case, 0, 1. Mutable and shallow copy.
Next is List.copyOf. It's a static method on List.
And it creates new lists. And the example code there
I've got a List of string objects.
ListCopy = list.copyOf and passing arrays.asList,
which itself is passed a stringArray.
And that creates a new list.
And I've got some code there to create a newArray
which is stringArray, newArray = listCopy.toArray
passing the empty stringArray, new string 0,
which you can see in the code.
Now this makes an immutable copy of the List.
But keep in mind that the resulting array
created from toArray is not mutable.
This is also a Shallow copy.
Now the last one, which we did the same code,
was System.arraycopy. This is a static method on system.
And it populates an array reference
with a copy of the array passed to it.
Example code: stringArray systemClonedArray = new String
and the length, in this case I'm actually passing
stringArray.length to create an array there of the
entire length that we want to copy.
This case of the stringArray.
Then the actual call is system.arraycopy stringArray 0,
systemClonedArray, 0, stringArray.length.
They are basically specifying the ranges there as well.
And it's mutable as well as being a shallow copy.
Right. So in the last two videos we covered some
of the healthier methods for Array and List.
Some of which marked form their way into an exam question.
I'll end the video here. Coming up next is a quiz.
And afterwards we're going to start looking at objects
and start the review of
java's object oriented features and support.
See you in the next video.